README.md, before:

# Sumatra Test

## What Is this?

This is a simple Python simulation that can be used to test and experiment the [Sumatra](http://packages.python.org/Sumatra/index.html) Simulation Management Tool.

Sumatra is a tool I found out about recently (10/12) that manages your computational experiments: simulations, calculations, analysis, any program your going to be running many times to create lots of data. It keeps track of what exactly you ran, in terms of source code, parameters, environment configuration, dependencies, etc.; when you ran it; how long it took; what was the input and output results. It lets you easily repeat configurations to be run again. And it let's you browse a library of your activity via your browser.

I've been looking for something like this ever since I ran my 1000th simulation on our lab's computer cluster, I was so frustrated with keeping track of what I'm running. So I decided I'd put this simple tutorial online for the sake of others, and for demoing it to colleagues.

## The Simulation

The simulation itself is pretty basic:

  - Start off with a n individuals
  - Divide them to two types, n/2 each
  - In every simulation step, randomly sample the next generation so that each type gives birth to invdividuals of the same type
  - Run x number of steps

n is given by a parameter called popsize and x by ticks. Both are at the params file under the *default* section.

## Setup Sumatra

I did this on Windows, it should work roughly the same on Linux. See the troubleshoot section otherwise.

  - Get *Sumatra* - *pip install smt*. 
  - Get the code for this test by using *git clone*
  - You don't need to setup Sumatra (*smt init ...*), it's already setup on this repository
  - Run simulations: *run params*

## Experiment with it

Try different Sumatra stuff from [here](http://packages.python.org/Sumatra/command_reference.html), like:

  - *smt run --label=some_label params* to get a specific label for a record
  - *smt run --reason="why I ran this simulation" params*
  - *smt run params default.popsize=100000* to run a simulation with more individuals
  - *smt list* and *smt list -l* to see what already ran
  - *smt repeat some_label*
  - Try the [web interface](http://packages.python.org/Sumatra/web_interface.html) it's awesome: *smtweb &*

## Troubleshoot

1. The only trouble I had was that when trying to call *smt* from the Windows command line it didn't work so I had to call *python c:\python27\scripts\smt*. But I did better than that - started *Git Bash* and worked from there, then *smt* just works.

## License

I'm talking about the license of the code and README, for Python's and Sumatra's licese visit their website, but I think both are pretty much free.

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="http://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/3.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License</a>.

Commit message:

added solution for CMD call of smt

README.md, after:

# Sumatra Test

## What Is this?

This is a simple Python simulation that can be used to test and experiment the [Sumatra](http://packages.python.org/Sumatra/index.html) Simulation Management Tool.

Sumatra is a tool I found out about recently (10/12) that manages your computational experiments: simulations, calculations, analysis, any program your going to be running many times to create lots of data. It keeps track of what exactly you ran, in terms of source code, parameters, environment configuration, dependencies, etc.; when you ran it; how long it took; what was the input and output results. It lets you easily repeat configurations to be run again. And it let's you browse a library of your activity via your browser.

I've been looking for something like this ever since I ran my 1000th simulation on our lab's computer cluster, I was so frustrated with keeping track of what I'm running. So I decided I'd put this simple tutorial online for the sake of others, and for demoing it to colleagues.

## The Simulation

The simulation itself is pretty basic:

  - Start off with a n individuals
  - Divide them to two types, n/2 each
  - In every simulation step, randomly sample the next generation so that each type gives birth to invdividuals of the same type
  - Run x number of steps

n is given by a parameter called popsize and x by ticks. Both are at the params file under the *default* section.

## Setup Sumatra

I did this on Windows, it should work roughly the same on Linux. See the troubleshoot section otherwise.

  - Get *Sumatra* - *pip install smt*. 
  - Get the code for this test by using *git clone*
  - You don't need to setup Sumatra (*smt init ...*), it's already setup on this repository
  - Run simulations: *run params*

## Experiment with it

Try different Sumatra stuff from [here](http://packages.python.org/Sumatra/command_reference.html), like:

  - *smt run --label=some_label params* to get a specific label for a record
  - *smt run --reason="why I ran this simulation" params*
  - *smt run params default.popsize=100000* to run a simulation with more individuals
  - *smt list* and *smt list -l* to see what already ran
  - *smt repeat some_label*
  - Try the [web interface](http://packages.python.org/Sumatra/web_interface.html) it's awesome: *smtweb &*

## Troubleshoot

1. The only trouble I had was that when trying to call *smt* from the Windows command line it didn't work so I had to call *python c:\python27\scripts\smt*. I managed a workaround by working from *Git Bash* instead of *cmd*, but then found out a solution in the [Sumatra Google Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups=#!topic/sumatra-users/Jlo7Ixhp1dM).

## License

I'm talking about the license of the code and README, for Python's and Sumatra's licese visit their website, but I think both are pretty much free.

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="http://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/3.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License</a>.
